---
title: Dotfiles
date: 2022-02-28 12:00:00 +0100
categories: [Personal project, Ergonomy]
tags: [shell, linux, configuration, i3]
pin: true
image:
  path: /debian.webp
  alt: A computer screen displaying a debian configuration.
---

# Linux Configuration and Tool Setup

This repository contains my personal Linux configuration files for tmux, nvim, i3, as well as scripts to automate the installation of these configurations and all my preferred tools and software on a fresh Fedora Linux system.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have met the following requirements:

- A fresh installation of Fedora Linux with i3wm.
  - You can download the ISO from [Fedora i3 Spin](https://download.fedoraproject.org/pub/fedora/linux/releases/39/Spins/x86_64/iso/Fedora-i3-Live-x86_64-39-1.5.iso) or visit the [Fedora i3 Spin page](https://fedoraproject.org/spins/i3/).
- Set the keyboard layout to French BÉPO AFNOR using the following command:

```bash
setxkbmap -layout fr -variant bepo_afnor
```

## Installation

To get started, follow these steps:

1. **Clone this repository to your local machine:**

```bash
cd ~
git clone https://github.com/Constantin-Hentgen/Dotfiles.git
cd Dotfiles
```

2. **Make the setup script executable:**

```bash
chmod +x run.sh
```

3. **Run the setup script:**

```bash
./run.sh
```

4. **Update the X11 configuration:**

   Ensure the following configuration file is in place for proper input device settings:

```bash
/usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/40-libinput.conf
```

## Configuration

The repository includes configuration files for several tools and environments:

- **tmux:** Terminal multiplexer configurations to manage multiple terminal sessions.
- **nvim:** Neovim configurations for an enhanced text editing experience.
- **i3:** Configuration files for the i3 window manager, optimizing the workflow and desktop environment.

## Tools and Software

The setup script installs and configures various tools and software, including:

- **tmux:** A powerful terminal multiplexer that allows you to manage multiple terminal sessions from a single window.
- **nvim (Neovim):** An extensible text editor that improves upon Vim with modern features.
- **i3wm:** A tiling window manager that offers a highly efficient and customizable desktop environment.

## License

This repository is licensed under the MIT License. See the license file for more information.

---

## References

- [Fedora i3 Spin](https://fedoraproject.org/spins/i3/)
- [Fedora i3 Spin ISO](https://download.fedoraproject.org/pub/fedora/linux/releases/39/Spins/x86_64/iso/Fedora-i3-Live-x86_64-39-1.5.iso)
- [Dotfiles Repository](https://github.com/Constantin-Hentgen/Dotfiles)
