---
title: Forge XDR
description: Here is a complete description
date: 2024-07-13 12:00:00 +0100
categories: [Personal project, Cybersecurity]
tags: [python, linux, windows, cybersecurity]
pin: true
image:
  path: /lock.webp
  lqip: data:image/webp;base64,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
  alt: AI generated lock made of pieces of code.
---

# Table of Contents

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
2. [What is EDR/XDR?](#what-is-edr-xdr)
   - [EDR (Endpoint Detection and Response)](#edr-endpoint-detection-and-response)
   - [XDR (Extended Detection and Response)](#xdr-extended-detection-and-response)
   - [Impact of EDR/XDR](#impact-of-edr-xdr)
3. [Why Build an XDR System from Scratch?](#why-build-an-xdr-system-from-scratch)
4. [Features](#features)
5. [Security](#security)
   - [Securing XDR: Defense Strategies Against Advanced Threats](#securing-xdr-defense-strategies-against-advanced-threats)
   - [Recent Attacks Exploiting Drivers to Disable XDR](#recent-attacks-exploiting-drivers-to-disable-xdr)
   - [Defense Strategies](#defense-strategies)
6. [Installation](#installation)
7. [Usage](#usage)
8. [Contributing](#contributing)
9. [License](#license)
10. [References](#references)

Welcome to Forge-XDR-Agent, an open-source Python project that represents my personal journey in developing an Extended Detection and Response (XDR) system. This project serves as a pedagogical tool, allowing me to explore and apply key concepts in cybersecurity engineering while building a functional XDR solution from scratch.

## Introduction

Forge-XDR-Agent is designed to help me understand and implement an XDR system, which integrates and correlates security data across various domains to enhance threat detection, response, and management. The project aims to provide a comprehensive view of how an XDR system operates, allowing for hands-on experience with core cybersecurity principles.

## What is EDR/XDR?

### EDR (Endpoint Detection and Response)

**Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR)** refers to a category of security solutions that monitor and respond to threats on individual endpoints, such as computers and mobile devices. EDR tools collect data from these endpoints, including process activities, file operations, and network connections. They analyze this data to detect suspicious behavior, provide alerts, and enable remediation actions.

> [What is an EDR? (Crowdstrike)](https://www.crowdstrike.com/epp-101/what-is-edr/) and [what is the difference between EDR and XDR? (Palo Alto Networks)](https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/cyberpedia/what-is-edr-vs-xdr)
{: .prompt-tip }

### XDR (Extended Detection and Response)

**Extended Detection and Response (XDR)** is a more comprehensive approach that integrates and correlates data from multiple security layers, including endpoints, networks, and cloud environments. Unlike traditional EDR, which focuses solely on endpoints, XDR provides a unified view across various security domains, improving the detection of complex threats and streamlining response efforts.

**Impact of EDR/XDR:**

- **Enhanced Threat Detection:** By integrating data across multiple sources, XDR provides a more holistic view of security threats, allowing for better identification of sophisticated attacks.
- **Streamlined Incident Response:** XDR systems automate and unify the response process, reducing the time and effort required to address security incidents.
- **Improved Security Posture:** Continuous monitoring and correlation of data help organizations maintain a stronger security posture and respond proactively to emerging threats.

## Why Build an XDR System from Scratch?

Building an XDR system from scratch offers several valuable benefits:

1. **In-Depth Understanding:** Developing an XDR system provides hands-on experience with key cybersecurity concepts and technologies. It allows for a deeper understanding of how various components interact to detect and respond to threats.

2. **Custom Solutions:** By creating a custom XDR solution, you can tailor the system to specific needs and requirements, potentially integrating unique features or addressing gaps in existing solutions.

3. **Skill Development:** Building an XDR system enhances skills in areas such as data collection, threat analysis, and incident response. It also improves proficiency with programming languages and tools used in cybersecurity.

4. **Pedagogical Value:** As a learning tool, an XDR system project can help reinforce theoretical knowledge and provide practical experience, making it a valuable asset for anyone pursuing a career in cybersecurity.

> **Disclaimer**: This project cannot be used as an actual mean of defense. I am the only developer working on it, with no expertise in software engineering. The aim of this project is an **educational** and **fun** objective.
{: .prompt-danger }


## Features

- **Data Collection:** Gathers security-related data from various sources, including endpoints, network traffic, and cloud environments.
- **Threat Detection:** Utilizes algorithms and analysis techniques to identify potential threats based on collected data.
- **Incident Response:** Provides mechanisms for responding to detected threats, including automated and manual actions.
- **Integration:** Supports integration with other security tools and platforms, enhancing overall security capabilities.

## Security

Besides the features that the XDR provides, the XDR needs to be defended as well.
Indeed, an attacker would try by any mean to escape the XDR detection capabilities by disabling or removing it from the system.

### Securing XDR: Defense Strategies Against Advanced Threats

Extended Detection and Response (XDR) solutions provide a comprehensive approach to threat detection and response, integrating multiple security products into a cohesive system. While XDR is a powerful tool for cybersecurity, it is not invulnerable. Attackers continuously evolve their techniques to evade detection, and one of their methods is to disable or remove XDR from the system. To safeguard XDR, understanding recent attack strategies and implementing robust defenses is crucial.

#### Recent Attacks Exploiting Drivers to Disable XDR

A notable example of such an attack was identified by researchers from Wavestone. They demonstrated how attackers could unlink callback lists used by Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) systems to monitor process and thread operations, effectively neutralizing the EDR without detection.

> [EDRSandBlast](https://github.com/wavestone-cdt/EDRSandblast) is the *Proof of Concept* of this [vulnerability](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2019-16098).
{: .prompt-tip }

Further exemplifying this threat, a series of incidents have involved threat actors using Microsoft-signed malicious drivers to disable security tools. For instance, the BlackByte and BlackCat ransomware groups have deployed malicious drivers to kill EDR and antivirus processes before executing their payloads. These drivers, signed with stolen or illicitly obtained certificates, are specifically crafted to evade detection and facilitate the attackers'.

#### Defense Strategies

To defend against such advanced threats, I have to apply several strategies:

1. **Driver Integrity Verification**: Implement strict policies for *driver integrity verification*. Only allow drivers that are signed by trusted vendors and regularly audit these drivers for any signs of tampering.

2. **Kernel Patch Protection**: Utilize *kernel patch protection* mechanisms such as *Kernel Patch Protection* (KPP) on Windows or *Kernel Integrity Protection* (KIP) on macOS. These mechanisms help prevent unauthorized changes to the kernel, making it more difficult for malicious drivers to be effective.

3. **Behavioral Monitoring**: Enhance XDR solutions with behavioral monitoring capabilities that can detect anomalies in kernel behavior. Even if a malicious driver is present, abnormal system behavior can be a red flag for potential security breaches.

4. **Regular Updates and Patching**: Ensure that all systems and security tools are regularly updated and patched. This minimizes the risk of vulnerabilities that can be exploited by malicious drivers.

5. **Least Privilege Principle**: Apply the principle of least privilege to limit the access and capabilities of drivers and applications. By restricting what drivers can do, even if a malicious driver gains entry, its potential for harm is significantly reduced.


## Installation

_TBD_

## Usage

_TBD_

## Contributing

Contributions to Forge-XDR-Agent are welcome! If you have suggestions or improvements, please fork the repository and submit a pull request. For detailed contribution guidelines, refer to the [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/Constantin-Hentgen/Forge-XDR-Agent/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) file in the repository.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/Constantin-Hentgen/Forge-XDR-Agent/blob/main/LICENSE) file for more information.

---

## References

- [Forge-XDR-Agent GitHub Repository](https://github.com/Constantin-Hentgen/Forge-XDR-Agent)
- [What is EDR?](https://www.crowdstrike.com/epp-101/what-is-edr/)
- [What is XDR?](https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/cyberpedia/what-is-xdr)
